This is Jockel Podcast number 263 with echo Charles and me, Jockel willing.
Good evening, echo. Good evening. And this podcast is brought to you by you. That's right.
This podcast exists because of your support. And I've always dreaded having to say the words,
this podcast is brought to you by whatever. But we don't say that. And we're not going to say that.
We're here and we're able to do what we do because you support us in a bunch of different ways.
And we own what we have here. And we don't rely on any companies to sponsor what we're doing,
which is nice. I mean, other than the companies that we actually own.
And the companies that we own, make the stuff that we actually use to do the things that we like to do.
And listen, it is a harder road to take to harder road to take. You can go that eat, you can go,
you know, like just get that money. And there's been times.
Some people that are on this podcast right now have sort of petitioned for that kind of thing.
A little bit right. Right.
Well, and that's, you know, legitimately, because it's, it's a much harder move to try and build companies invest in your companies and run the supply chain and the personnel and deal with all the finances and the tax and the thousands of things that you got to do to make a business run.
And that's okay. Just what guess what it takes work takes hard work.
It takes discipline because it's agranged. But at the end of the day, guess what?
That discipline gives us freedom.
Give us freedom. Freedom, freedom, the freedom to talk about whatever we want.
The freedom to talk for five hours without having to take a break to mention some company.
We don't have to do any that.
And we can make, like I said, we can make the podcast as long as we want.
The sure is we want to do whatever we want. We got the freedom to do that.
We have the freedom to do that because we also have freedom of speech, which with the.
With the incredible foresight and intention.
Is the first amendment of the constitution of the United States or America.
The first amendment is Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of of religion or prohibiting the free exercise.
Thereof or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press or the right of the people, peaceably to assemble and a petition.
The government for a redress of grievances. So there you go.
The government shall make no law to a bridge freedom of speech. Doesn't get any clearer than that.
But it does get a little money or that in modern times, right?
They didn't have podcasts back in the day. That I'm aware of.
So as smart as the founding fathers were, and as well as the constitution has held up as a document.
Well, there's been there's the interesting things going on right now.
Interesting thing is going on right now. And in some ways it's troubling.
Because you see you can see speech being controlled.
You can see speech being censored. You can see meanings.
The way speech is being used being manipulated.
You can see words, the meaning of words being changed.
And we've seen this before throughout history.
And one of the best examples of this. It's a very clear example.
And I just want to talk about with Jordan Peterson.
And when Jordan was on, you weren't there.
The second or third time that Jordan came on, you weren't there.
But we, and it's actually happened with every time he's come on. We've had some, I've had some plan about what we're going to talk about.
We don't talk about any that. We talk about something completely different.
So on that one, we were going to talk about the Google Igarca Pelago and by Sorcerin Itson.
And we did cover this one thing that I really wanted to talk about.
Because I think it's important. It's, it's an example of the way language drives,
thought and policy. And it's, it's the one word, it's the word is cool.
And the, what that word originally meant was former sort of workers or peasants that had become wealthy.
Right. So this person, they were, they were in the lower class and they moved up.
And then over time it became a little bit more pejorative, meaning it had a, it started to take on a negative connotation.
So eventually it became Sorcerin Itson in, in the Gulag, Arca Pelago.
He says, quote, a, a, a, a cool act sort of became to represent a miserly dishonest, a rural trader who grows rich,
not through his own labor, but through someone else's. So it's, it's got a negative connotation connotation.
But he says about those cool locks at the time that there wasn't that many of them.
In fact, he says that they could be numbered on one finger. So there's a very small number of these kind of bad people that had made money and kind of made money off the backs of others.
As the, as the revolution went on, the communist revolution went on, circa like 1950, 1960, 1970, the meaning of the word started to encompass more, more people.
It started to, and this is again, this is from, this is from social nits.
And it started to include people, all those who in any way hired workers, even if it was only when they were temporarily short of working hands in their own families.
So you had something that used to just mean someone that had kind of risen up and made it out of the lower class, into the middle class.
Then it became someone that made it to the middle class, but they did it in a bad way.
And now it's, hey, anybody that's sort of anybody that's hired another person is cool.
By the 1930s, social nits, and he says that the word was used to, quote, describe all strong peasants in general.
peasants strong in management, strong in work, or even strong merely in convictions. So you can see this word, which used to just represent a very small number of people.
All of a sudden it starts to represent more and more people if you have anyone working for you.
And, and eventually an official decree comes out from the government.
It releases an official definition of what a cool act is.
And by that definition of cool act was any person who used hired labor owned a mill, a cremary processing equipment or a, quote, complex machine with a motor.
So it's a mathematically rented out agricultural equipment or facilities or was involved in trade money lending commercial brokerage or other sources of non labor income.
And this last definition made it so that anyone that sold surplus goods. So if you had extra stuff and you sold it, you're cool.
So now we're basically now talking, you'd if you had a yard sale, right? So now we're basically talking about about everyone.
And then the government set out to destroy the cool acts and thereby destroy the strength of the peasantry.
And the communist started a program called decoecasation.
And then they started to get rid of them. The people that were identified as cool acts were, which again, now there's a ton of them.
They were ordered to give their farm animals their livestock to government authorities. So now we're taking property.
Many of them, and many of the cool acts at this time were like, okay, well then I'm going to kill my livestock and, you know, keep the meat and use the hides.
And then when they try to kill the livestock instead of giving them up, the communist made a new law, which made it possible to prosecute people for the malicious slaughtering of livestock.
This is like, isn't it just you see the steps going and it gets worse and worse?
So still left a little bit too a little bit, you could still maybe move through that. You could still probably get away with it.
So then Stalin decreed in order to oust the cool acts as a class.
The resistance of this class must be smashed in open battle and it must be deprived of the productive sources of its existence and development that is in turn towards the policy of eliminating the cool acts as a class.
We're going to get rid of all of them. And by the way, look at who we're talking about. We're talking about people that were talking about the people that had stepped up and made things happen, right?
People that own machinery, people that own the mill, people that ran businesses. That's who they're talking about.
Well, guess what? When you do that, when you get rid of the people that own farm equipment and farms and livestock, guess what happens?
You run out of food. You don't have anyone making food anymore and this leads to starvation.
And when you get starvation, now you get people that are hungry, now you get kind of a mob rule thing going on.
And this is a very horrible thing to think about. If you weren't starving, if you weren't starving or your family wasn't starving, how could you not be starving?
You would be, you would not be starving. If you had food, if you had food, guess what you were?
You're a cool act.
That's what you are. So what does mob rule look like when it is approved by the government or it's ignored by the government? What does it look like?
There's a description, an author named Robert Conquest, he wrote a book called Reflections of a ravaged century.
And this is a description from that book, which is actually from a Russian journalist, Grossman, who said that the party activists who helped the state political directorate, the secret police, also known as the GPU, with arrests and deportations,
quote, were all people who knew one another well and knew their victims, but in carrying out this task, task they became dazed, stupified, they would threaten people with guns, as if they were under a spell, calling small children,
who lack bastards, screaming blood suckers, they had sold themselves on the idea that so-called cool acts were parrillas, on touchables, vermin.
They would not sit down at a parasites table, the cool act, a child was loathsome, the young cool act girl was lower than a mouse.
Mob, scenario, the book goes on to quote a guy named Lev Copa Lev, a party activist, so this guy was in the communist game, who eventually became a dissident, and he said it was excruciating to see and hear all of this, and even worse, to take part in it.
And I persuaded myself, explained to myself, I mustn't give into debilitating pity.
This is what he's telling himself, look, I can't have any pity.
We were realizing historical necessity, we were performing our revolutionary duty, we were obtaining grain for the socialist fatherland, for the five-year plan.
So, Stalin ends up ordering the cool acts to be liquidated as a class, which in turn causes the Soviet famine in 1932 and 1933, that results in at least 3 million dead,
and the social distance said 6 million. 1.8 million were sent to labor colonies, only 1.3 million ever actually made it to the labor colonies.
Another half a million of them just disappeared gone, look, we don't even know what happened, but obviously didn't turn out good for them.
And then you have the rest of the nightmare of the Soviet disaster.
And you can pull that thread and you get to this language, you get to language, on a tack on language, on what people say,
what people are allowed to say, or what people are forced to say, because our words, they make our thoughts.
We think in words, and we have to keep our words free to keep our minds free.
And I thought that we learned this. And if it wasn't obvious enough from watching what happened in the Soviet Union, then when you read 1984 by George Orwell, by George Orwell, you said, oh, okay, yeah, got it.
Didn't he spell it out for us? If you've ever read that book, at least when I went through I asked where you had to read that book.
And at some point, at some point, I'm sure I will cover the whole book on the podcast.
But without even talking about the plot, just talking about the world that he paints in this, in this book.
The book is, you know, it was written in the whatever, 1947 I think.
But it's about 1984, and you've got this. I'm the present government. You've got surveillance everywhere.
Everyone's heard that the big brother, do you remember reading 1984? No, no.
So it's a futuristic time. Everything is controlled by the government.
You've heard big brothers watching you, right? That's where it comes from.
Is it about his not a dystopian future? No, sorry. It's a reality show that everyone lives in this house.
Yeah, it's a set. But here's a thing, no. It's dystopian. It's not dystopian.
Well, I guess there's a far control. No, but there's cameras in every single room.
I don't think they let me run a reality program. I think it's pretty weird.
But yeah, so they go around in the house and there's cameras like mounted cameras in all the rooms,
like surveillance cameras. It's interesting.
And you can tune in on off times and stuff and just watch.
Like you could do that. Like you could go on a website and just watch the people in the house.
Yeah, like I think they used to play it on show time where it's like big brother,
live and you can just tune in and watch them do nothing. Like do normal everyday stuff.
But here's the thing. There's I think there's now that's totally common, right? Because through the internet, you can just do that.
There's people doing that right now. Screen and scream are streaming there.
Whatever they're doing their homework. I saw something,
some thing about, I think it was a Japanese dude who would like do his homework.
He was getting even a million people watching him. He was super organized. I'll give it up for him.
But if I remember correctly, could you see the content of his homework?
Yeah, he was different. It was like, there was multiple camera views. You could kind of see what he was reading.
You could see what he was working on. Yeah. And that's what he did. He did his homework or something like that.
Okay, so that makes sense. If it was just a picture of him doing his homework,
you couldn't see the homework that's different. That's weird.
But if you can see what homework he's doing, oh yeah, that's good.
Why is that? Not why are you more into. I'm not interested in his homework at all.
Well, I mean pretty much. I'm not into video games either,
but you can watch people livestreaming their screen and a little corner of them.
Their face playing just playing video games or whatever. And this is like multi million.
There's hundreds of people that watch those hundreds of millions per minute watching that stuff.
Yeah. But it's different because big brothers like them doing normal stuff all day all night.
That's a big brother like, but they have a voice in there too.
Can you give directions? It says, hey, you're breaking this rule or you're who makes the rules?
The show or whatever. Are the rules or the rules tyrannical in any way?
No, it's a game show at the end of the day. It's like it lasts like a few months or whatever.
I don't know how long and they, you know, they have little challenges.
Defeat the opponents in challenges.
So you can break them.
Yeah, and then you have a vote and it's like, you know, it's a thing.
Yeah.
Alright, well, that term big brother comes from 1984.
There's surveillance watching you all the time.
There's perpetual war going on. There's historical negation, which is when you falsify history or you distort history.
And there's a bunch of just really, I was going to say cool quotes, whether or not cool.
They're actually horrible quotes, but they're, they're, they really capture what the book is about.
And there's one saying in the book,
who controls the past controls the future, who controls the present controls the past?
All these things in there when you read them, you go,
there's thought police who are tracking people for committing thought crimes.
There's people who commit thought crimes,
who, and they, or they don't tow the party line.
They don't, they don't tow the party line.
And if you don't tow the party line or if you commit thought crimes,
you become an un-niperson,
meaning you just disappear, and all evidence that you ever existed is destroyed.
You are gone.
You become an un-person.
You get erased.
You get erased. You get canceled.
Right? Sounds familiar, right? So you get canceled.
Then this is crazy.
In 1984, in the book, there's something called the Pro feed.
Short for the ProLiteriet feed,
which is a steady, unending stream of mindless entertainment,
which is produced to distract and occupy the minds of the masses.
Is that sound familiar at all?
So you can spend all this time distracted and wasting and being just mindlessly entertained.
Yeah.
Sounds like that video game scenario.
Sounds like the thing you got in your pocket,
which by the way, gets even scarier.
They have something called a telescope screen.
You watch it, and it watches you.
Kind of like your phone,
which is tracking where you are identifying what you're watching.
Like your phone is watching you,
as much as you're watching it.
Right? This is factual.
There's a word called a word called up sub,
which means you submit to the higher authority.
It's viewed in like a positive way.
And then all these words,
all these words are framed on a new evolving language,
which is called new speak.
So we have a new way of speaking.
It's called new speak.
The old way of speaking is called old speak.
That's English.
That's the English language is called old speak.
New speak is what we're talking now.
And they got a bunch of these words.
And we're going to get into the language of it.
But if you add plus as a prefix to any word,
it's strength and so word.
So good is good.
Excellent. They get rid of the word,
excellent. They say plus good.
Because they're trying to limit the vocabulary of people.
And people have old think.
If people have old think,
they have ideas or they have memories
that are pre prior to the revolution.
So this is right.
This is scary to think about.
And I know we don't normally talk much about
current events really on this podcast.
Because there's enough of that.
Filling everyone's pro feet every single day
without us chiming in.
I mean, you got pro feet coming at you 24,
seven thousand different angles.
And so I'm not,
we don't spend a bunch of time talking about,
wait, what happened in the last,
you know, 12 hour new cycle.
But you know, the other day when we were talking to cowboy,
cowboy,
cowboy, con, the Vietnamese,
socks, orger,
gave me a little warning that I had to pay
some attention to.
You know, he was saying,
you know, you got to watch out for communism.
And I kind of, you know,
a kind of brush that often said,
well, you know,
we're a strong country.
We, we were rooted in freedom or something like that.
And you know,
it's in our blood and we're remain free.
And he kind of just said, be careful.
Because he had seen it take over and Vietnam.
And I mean, you want to talk,
you look at the history of the Vietnamese people.
You want to talk about rooted in freedom.
Like that,
that country is legit.
They, they do not get.
They do not take easy to occupy us.
It's in their blood, freedom.
And look what happened.
It happened and it happens slowly.
And you can see in the, like,
like in the Soviet Union,
one thing that happens is
it, part of it starts with speech.
It starts with banning words,
it starts with changing the meaning of words.
And that's what happens in, in the book 1984.
And there's all kinds of quotes in this book.
And they're,
they're just eerie.
They're eerie when you hear them.
And you think about the context of the world right now.
I, I, I blocked out some of the, some of the quotes.
If all others accepted the lie,
which the party imposed,
if all records told the same tale,
then the lie passed into history and became the truth.
How about this one?
We know that no one ever ceases power
with the intention of relinquishing it.
Here's one.
The ideal set up by the party was something huge,
terrible and glittering,
a world of steel and concrete of monstrous machines
and terrifying weapons,
a nation of warriors and fanatics,
marching forward in perfect unity,
all thinking the same thoughts and shouting,
the same slogans,
perpetually working, fighting,
triumphant,
per, triumphant,
persecuting,
300 million people all with the same face.
Here's another interesting one.
How could you make appeal to the future
and not a trace of you,
not even an anonymous word scribbled on a piece of paper,
could physically survive?
Another section every record has been destroyed or falsified.
Every book rewritten,
every picture has been repainted,
every statue in street building has been renamed,
every date has been altered,
and the process is continuing day by day
and minute by minute.
History has stopped.
Nothing exists,
except an endless present,
in which the party is always right.
Another one,
never again will you be capable of ordinary human feeling,
everything will be dead inside you.
Never again will you be capable of love,
or friendship, or joy of living,
or laughter, or curiosity, or courage, or integrity,
you will be hollow.
We shall squeeze you empty,
and then we shall fill you with ourselves.
And,
there's this book is just filled with these eerie,
eerie statements,
but in the end of the book,
the main character Winston, he finally breaks.
Like he's resistant through the book,
and he's trying to maintain some level of humanity
and individuality in the end he breaks,
and it finishes up by saying,
but he was all right.
But it was all right.
Everything was all right.
The struggle was finished.
He had won the victory over himself.
He loved a big brother.
Very depressing.
It's very depressing when the human spirit is broken
and it's even more depressing when the human spirit is broken
on mass,
which is what this book portrays.
And,
and George Orwell does a great job.
This whole, this whole,
this whole explanation and this trick,
and this thing that he does with language,
is very powerful.
And it's calculated and it's deliberate,
which is,
which is the way it happens.
And like I said,
one day,
I'm sure I'll cover this whole book,
but tonight,
I just wanted to cover one part of the book,
one part of the book that I want to dive into.
So, so George Orwell wrote the book.
And he's got a very interesting past.
I mean, he had a,
he's a very interesting guy.
And the reason I say that is because he's not just some academic
that sat in a ivory tower somewhere.
He had a lot of experience in life.
He had been a policeman in India.
He had,
he had fought in the Spanish Revolution.
He had been shot in the neck.
So, I mean, this guy is not,
this guy is not just a,
just some person that's read a bunch of books,
and it was an academic.
No, he's, he's been out there in the world.
But he, he wrote, so in this book,
at the end of the book,
he's got this appendix to the book.
And the appendix,
at the end of the book,
is about this language.
It's about this language,
and in a way,
it might be the most important message in the book,
or at least it,
maybe it's not the most important message in the book,
but it's at least,
at least it's the least appreciated message in the book.
And that's why I want to read some excerpts from that,
because this part of the book really
starts to make you think,
makes me think anyways.
But where we are,
but what we have to be careful of,
so the appendix is written,
this appendix that I'm talking about,
that we're going to jump into.
It's written almost as like an academic assessment
of the new speak language.
So sometime in the future,
beyond, okay, in the book,
sometime in the future of this book,
some academic type person
is writing about like a historical review
of this language,
because you can tell when reading it,
that the totalitarian state that this takes place in didn't work,
right?
It's some point failed.
It failed to really maintain the control
and suppress the human spirit.
So that's a positive sign, right?
Even though they got Winston,
some people stood up against it,
and they were able to fight it off.
And now you get this person,
this person writing this sort of historical documentation
about this language.
And you can kind of see,
he kind of indicates that one of the reasons,
maybe that the totalitarian government
wasn't able to maintain control,
because they couldn't get full control of the language.
And it's very interesting,
very interesting to go through.
So, here we go.
1984 by George Orwell,
and we're skipping the entire novel,
partly because I think most people have read it.
I hope,
but I want to jump into the,
to the, this appendix.
So here we go.
New speak was the official language of Oceana.
That's the totalitarian state.
And had been devised to meet the ideological needs
of Innsak,
which Innsak is an abbreviated term for English socialism.
In the year 1984,
there was not as yet anyone who used new speak
as his soul means of communication,
either in speech or writing.
The leading articles,
so at the point that this book was written at the point
at the point when 1984,
in 1984 in this world,
no one was fully speaking new speak yet.
That's why you could read it.
That's why you could read these words.
They hadn't gotten the new language
to where they wanted it to be.
The leading article in the Times
were written in In It,
but this was a tour to force that could only be carried out
by a specialist.
So only like people that were really fluent in new speak
could write the headlines.
It was expected that new speak would have finally
superseded old speak or standard English
as we should call it.
By the year 2050.
Meanwhile, it gained ground steadily
all party members tending to use new speak words
and grammatical constructions more and more
in their speech every day.
The version in use in 1984
and embodied in the ninth and tenth
editions of the new speak dictionary
was a provisional one and contained many
superfluous words
and archaic formation formations
which were due to be suppressed later.
It is the final perfected version
as embodied in the eleventh edition of the dictionary
that we are concerned here.
So this is talking about something
that you don't get to see in the book
which is the final version of new speak.
What they wanted it to be.
The purpose of new speak
was not only to provide a medium of expression
for the world view and mental habits
proper to the devotees of In-Soc
but to make all other modes of thought impossible.
It was intended that new speak had been adopted
once and for all that old speak
was would be forgotten
and a heretical thought that is a thought
diverging from the principles of In-Soc
should be literally unthinkable.
At least so far as it is dependent on words.
So there was going to be you couldn't commit
a thought crime anymore because you wouldn't have
the capability of expressing what it was.
Its vocabulary was so constructed
as to give exact and often very subtle expression
to every meaning that a party member could probably
wish properly wish to express
while excluding all other meanings
and also the possibility of arriving at them
by indirect methods.
So you can even use like multiple words
to figure out how to say something that wasn't on board
with the party.
This was done partly by the invention of new words
but chiefly by eliminating undesirable words
and by stripping such words as
remained of unorthodox meanings
and so far as possible of all secondary meanings whatsoever.
To give a single example, the word free
still existed in Newspic but it could only be used
in such statements as
this dog is free from lies
or this field is free from weeds.
It could not be used in the old sense of
politically free or intellectually free
since political and intellectual freedom
no longer existed even as concepts
and were therefore of necessity
nameless.
Couldn't even think of it.
You couldn't even think of being free.
The concept didn't exist anymore.
They eliminated the word.
Quite apart from the suppression of
definitely heretical words
reduction of vocabulary was regarded as an
end in itself and no word that could be
dispensed with was allowed to survive.
Newspic was designed not to extend but to
but diminished the range of thought.
And this purpose was indirectly assisted by
cutting the choice of words down to a minimum.
Scary, right?
Yeah, it's interesting.
Newspic was founded on the English language
as we now know it though many new speak sentences
even when not containing newly created words
and clearly intelligible to an English speaker of our own day.
Newspic words were divided into three distinct classes known as
the A vocabulary, the B vocabulary, and the C vocabulary.
It will be simpler to discuss each class separately
but the grammatical peculiarities of the language can be dealt with
in the section devoted to the A-cat vocabulary
since the rules held good for all three categories.
So this is the A vocabulary.
The A vocabulary consisted of the words needed for the business of everyday life.
For such things as eating, drinking, working, putting on one's clothes,
going up and downstairs, writing in vehicles, gardening, cooking, and the like.
It was composed almost entirely of words that we already possess words like
hit, run, dog, tree, sugar, house, field.
But in comparison with present day English vocabulary,
their number was extremely small while their meanings were far more rigidly defined.
All ambiguities and shades of meaning had been purged out of them.
So far as it could be achieved, a new speak word of this class
was simply a staccato sound expressing one clearly understood concept.
It would have been quite impossible to use the A vocabulary for literary purposes
or for political or philosophical discussions.
It was intended only to express simple,
propulsive thoughts usually involving concrete objects or physical actions.
So the general populace can't even carry on a political debate
or a philosophical discussion because they don't even have the vocabulary for it.
They just can't even have it.
So we're just, we're just shutting it down.
The grammar of new speak had two outstanding peculiarities.
The first was almost a complete interchangeability between different parts of speech.
Any word in the language in principle,
this applied to even very abstract words such as if or when,
could be used as a verb noun adjective or adverb.
Between the verb and the noun form, when they were the same root,
there was never any variation.
This rule of itself involving the destruction of many archaic forms.
The word fuck for example did not exist a new speak.
It's place was taken by think, which did the duty for both noun and verb.
No etymological principle was followed here.
In some cases it was the original noun that was chosen for retention
and other cases it was the verb.
Even where a noun and verb of kindred meaning were not etymologically connected,
one of the other of them was frequently suppressed.
There was for example no such word for cut.
It's meaning being sufficiently covered by the noun verb knife.
So can you knife me a piece of cake?
Adjectives were formed by adding the suffix full to the noun verb and adverbs by saying by adding wise.
Thus for example, speedful meant rapid and speed wise meant quickly.
Certain of our present-day adjectives such as good strong big black soft were attained,
but their total number was very small.
There was little need for them.
It was almost any adjectival meaning could be arrived at by adding full to a noun verb.
None of these now existing adverbs was retained except very few already ending in wise.
The wise termination was invariable.
The word well for example was replaced by good wise.
In addition, any word this applied in principle to every word in the language could be negative.
Negative by adding the a-fix on or could be strengthened by the a-fix plus or for still greater emphasis double plus.
So for example, uncalled.
Uncold.
Mount Warley.
As opposed to uncool.
There's no word for cool.
I'm just seen in real life, there's a word called uncool and the short version is un-s.
Oh, that's what it is.
Disco-unns.
But it's not the temperature cool.
It's you being cool or uncool.
And un-s-u-n-s.
Un-s is like just short for it.
So if I'm walking behind you, I trip your foot.
That's un-s-u-n-s.
Pretty un-s-u-n-s.
Yeah, actually you know what it's more used for stuff that's more un-s than that.
It's like- So it's a little bit more of a severe phrase.
Severe.
Yes.
I think so.
In my experience that's how to like if I trip you and you fall and it's in front of some people, that's pretty un-s-n-s.
You spill your beverage on your-
I was gonna say shirt, but we're probably not wearing a shirt since we're in high.
No, very rarely.
If you're doing on purpose, it's un-sured or no shirt, I mean.
But actually, you know what?
Now they think it's essentially the same thing.
Yeah.
Except the plus part.
I guess if you replace it with very-
Because there's like plus plus, right?
Yeah.
You say that's very cool.
No, there's double plus.
Double plus, yes, yes.
Double plus-called meant very cold.
It's kind of efficient.
So un-cold meant warm.
Plus-cold and double plus-cold meant very cold and superlatively cold.
Yeah.
Very, very cold.
It was also possible in present day English to modify the meaning of almost any
word by prepositional offenses, such as anti-post up-down.
By such methods, it was found possible to bring about an enormous diminution of vocabulary.
Given, for instance, the word good.
Yes, sir.
There was no need for such a word as bad.
Since the required meaning was equally well-indeed-better-expressed by un-good.
I don't know.
It seems like there could be a t-shirt possible.
I don't know what to be there.
And I don't say that very often, but it seems like we've talked about good, a fair amount.
And we do have a t-shirt that does say good might be kind of cool to have a t-shirt that's said un-good.
Maybe a picture of a Hawaiian getting tripped up on the beat.
Yeah, it would be very un-good, yes.
Un-cool.
All that was necessary.
In any case, where two words formatted a natural pair of opposites was to decide which of them to suppress.
Dark, for example, could be replaced by un-light or light by undark according to preference.
You get rid of one of those two words.
Yeah.
Wait, according to preference.
Yeah, so they would just pick either.
We got light and dark.
We don't need both those words, so we pick one of them and then put on in front of it for the other one.
You know what's actually kind of scary?
If you let it be scary, it's like-
This whole thing is scary.
It kind of makes sense.
That's the scary part.
Well, you know what I came from?
That side came from the fact that-
When I was an English majoring in all of this.
Yeah.
And look, the English language, there's things that are meant they make no sense whatsoever.
Like if you were an engineering mind, right, where you like, you know, the rules,
the rules, the rules, the rules, the rules, the rules, and then you try and figure out how to do English.
You're going to have a real hard time with it, man.
Oh, yeah.
And that makes sense because, bro, I get, you know, when I first got into whatever I got into,
was each TML.
Oh, we're talking computer languages.
Yeah.
Hypertext, manga, language to be exact.
Yeah, yeah.
And if you go deeper into the coding thing, you know, it's that's straight up.
Like that is engineering mind, where it's like, bro, the computers, like, hey, tell me what to do.
I'll do it.
But you better tell me the right thing.
If you, I don't know about tones, you tell me the words or the characters or whatever,
and I'll do it.
And you can tell them like accidentally the wrong thing.
They're going to do that thing.
That's exactly what a computer does.
So you better be specific.
And if you're not specific, it's simply either won't happen or it'll do the thing that you mistakenly were specific about.
Yeah.
That's a little something that we liked to call operator air.
Operator air.
Meaning I messed up.
You know, when the GPS is first came out,
I was pretty, my first reaction was like, why do I need to carry that thing?
That thing weighs 25 pounds.
And they're like, yeah.
And then they say, well, you know, you'll know where you are.
And I go, I have a mapping compass.
I know exactly where I am.
You know, I've had the training.
I'm doing a terrain study.
I know where I'm at.
I have a mapping compass.
I mean, it'd be like, you know, if, do you need to do that?
I don't know.
It'd be like, you know, if, do you need a GPS to get home?
Right now.
Me, no.
From here.
No, sorry.
That's how I felt.
If someone, when they started telling me I needed a GPS and the field,
I was kind of like, the exact same way you feel.
I was like, why would I need this thing?
Wait, it's 25 pounds.
I have a map.
I have a compass.
I know exactly where I am.
I don't need anything else to help me.
But there are some situations.
You know, when you're out in the open ocean,
there's no, there's nothing to get a bearing off of.
There's nothing there.
So when you're over the horizon,
you can't shoot a bearing.
Once you get closer to the shore, you can shoot a bearing.
You can figure out where you are.
In the open desert, sometimes too.
There's nothing to shoot a bearing off of.
That you can see.
So sometimes you do need that GPS.
But the early GPS is, they, they weren't that good.
Well, they took a long time to find themselves.
But once they found themselves, then all of a sudden,
I realized, well, this thing is freaking super accurate.
And sometimes people would get lost, right?
You know, and then they'd blame the GPS.
And I would say, operator.
Yeah.
That thing did not,
you don't have the one GPS that took and changed the coordinates of earth.
Right?
Yeah.
I didn't happen.
I'm sure enough I'd pull it out.
Oh, yeah.
You missed the digits here.
You added to, you know, you fat finger the digit over here.
And that's the problem.
Oh, yeah.
That, that, that, that's so true.
And then you're like in HTML as well, right?
So it's essentially like, and you, you talk about your English major.
And, you know, how it's like,
I took a glass called advanced grammar and syntax.
Yeah.
So the reason that, okay, I said, I'm not, I'm not an English major.
But I talking to other people.
And here's this little factor in English is this,
is one of the main differentulators between like the engineering situation and me talking to you situation.
I mean, you use like tones and all the stuff, my emotion and all this stuff or whatever.
And I can say like literally the wrong thing, but I can say, hey, you know what I mean though.
And you could probably say yes.
There is that little soft, wiggly room, you know, or if I miss speaking, say someone else's name,
but you know, I met this other guy's name in a story or something like this.
And I can be like, oh, you know what I mean?
And you be like, yeah, yeah, I know what you mean.
There's, that does not exist in in.
Great machine, how rich.
Yeah.
You can be like, you know, five, five, five, six, one.
Five, five, six, one, five, five, five, five, six, one.
Five, five, six and then maybe like a two, you know.
And then five, five, five things.
And the things like, okay, too, that's on purpose.
Boom, let's execute that.
That's what the machine does.
Instead of like, all right.
Hey, did you mean five, five, six, one on this two here?
And then you know, like a person will think that, you know.
Yeah.
I have this thing one time as a guy trying to explain like about the piano and about what what what
how you play the piano good basically.
And so he plays a song and he basically hit the notes like a machine.
You know what I'm saying?
Like ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, just hit it like it.
It was some famous, you know, song on the piano on what it was, but some kind of like
classical piano song.
But he plays it like a robot basically just every key gets the same pressure and whatever.
And then he plays it like a human.
And it sounds really, really different.
So there's a lot that's going on.
Better.
Oh, the human one is way better.
Yeah.
So yeah.
It's like this, too.
It's the same thing with guitar.
Like you can get people that pluck the notes and they can pluck them perfectly.
But then you get, you know, Jimmy Page and he's bending them and flint the wrong note,
bringing it back.
Yeah.
It's a human element.
There's a rawness to it.
Yeah.
It's like obviously millions of examples, but like you have analog and digital, like
even if you go film, right?
If you go film this little imperfections in there that make it kind of a softer kind of
feel and then digital is kind of hard.
Even though digital is getting so advanced where it's kind of incorporating that kind of
stuff in that, but CGI, for example.
Like if you look at early CGI, you're like, by that's so lame because it's too perfect.
It's too like computer.
It looks like a video game almost, right?
You forgot like all the light bouncing off of this thing that leaf over there and all the light
spill from this color of this guy shirt and all the imperfections, all that stuff is all
in play and real light.
And that's how the light real light is, you know?
And then, but you try to recreate it in a computer, especially one that's not as accurate
as real life.
Which is gonna take a while.
Right.
It's gonna feel like a computer, you know?
I was listening to someone talking about making music and it had to do with Jack White from the White Stripes.
Sure.
And basically when you get a drummer like nowadays, what they do, if you, if you're not going to make a record.
So here's what we do.
Down.
Here's what we do.
We take the record.
We record a snare drum.
Rock and we record 30 cracks on the snare drum.
We take the perfect one.
That sounds perfect.
That's the snare.
And then we take the high hat.
And we get the perfect, we record 50 of 100 of them.
We get the perfect one that sounds exactly the way we want it.
And then we take that.
And then we take all the different drums.
We find the perfect sounds.
We're making a digital drum.
It's a recording of a real drum.
But it is, it's the same one.
It's a perfect shot snare shot.
And they take that.
And then they lay down the beat.
And the beat is 1000 percent accurate because it's computer.
It's, it's absolutely a perfect.
Right.
It's right on every single time.
And that right there when you hear it.
And that's what when you hear like a pop 40, whatever, like a pop 40 music.
That's what you're hearing.
You're hearing a, sure.
You can be like, oh, yeah, a person played that, but it got played.
They can also take the drum like if a drummer and they can line up.
His, he was off by a half a millisecond.
Cool.
It's all perfect.
Now they line it all up.
They line it all up.
So you're hearing this, what you said.
You're hearing this perfection.
And there's a, there's a, there's a, a fakeness to it.
There's something that we don't like.
And you hear like, for the white stripes, because we're talking about the white stripes.
Or Jack White.
But he's, he's doing things.
The, the, you're like, oh, that was, he just said something wild.
Yeah.
Human there.
And, and that's gives it this reality.
Yeah.
So there's a, we want to have that.
You know, I want to have that.
Did you think when I said what sounded a bit, but when you said what sounded better,
the, the mechanical piano playing sound or their human,
did you think I was going to say the mechanical sound?
No, no.
We're just checking me.
Yeah.
That's one way to put it.
Exactly.
I wasn't checking you.
I was like, we're going to want to expose the example.
It's kind of like that.
Like where, because you weren't making a point or where you,
I didn't seem like you were making a point that one wasn't necessarily better or worse.
You were just identifying what the difference.
That's what it seemed like.
So I, yeah.
Right.
I wasn't, I wasn't purposely making the point that one was better or worse.
I thought that would be self evident.
And if you ever heard a robot play a piano, you would know that it was kind of self
that sounds black.
I don't know that.
I remember when I was a kid they had like these,
pianos that had these pieces of paper,
these rolls of paper that that would go through.
And it was basically some kind of a mechanical computer that told it what notes to play.
You know, it didn't be anything.
Yeah, self-playing piano.
Yeah.
Old school, self-playing piano.
Yeah, but I would think that that would still have this analog feel to it.
It feels physical paper.
It had a little bit, it had more analog than a computer because guess what?
The, the analog machine is like not perfect.
It's still doing the work.
Yeah, exactly.
It's still got to like hit the note in there.
Yeah.
Is it to hit that little thing as to hit the string?
And that's an mechanical thing, right?
Yeah.
That's absolutely correct.
It's mechanical, not digital.
Right.
It's analog, I guess, so what we're saying?
Yeah.
CJ has a big one and getting back to that like, you know how they computer and still they don't have this down at all.
I don't know.
I mean, it's they're getting good.
I don't, I don't think they're very even close to it yet, but, you know, they can recreate certain things digitally in CJ, like water and machines and light and all this stuff.
And some of it, they have it straight up, they have it down.
But if you come to, when it comes to the human face, the human face when it's, and when it's not animated, it's good.
It's not really solid.
They can get skin tones and reflections and transparency.
All that stuff.
But when they start talking, there's so many complexities in your face and as a human being instinctually, we recognize them so deeply.
Yeah.
We just get, we're not even there.
We're not.
So, but don't we improving our technology so rapidly that we'll get there a lot quicker than we've got to this point.
I think so.
Yeah.
I believe that is the case.
But as of right now, you can get the best, best one when it's completely made from CJ,
because now they get a real person's face and they match this and match that and even then, man, it's really hard.
Unless it's like a super simple expression or a pauser, something like that.
But you get someone to talk, a CGI face to talk, no matter how good it is, it looks weird.
It looks actually scary.
Because it looks like, oh, are you trying to be a person?
What about the deep fakes?
Somebody just posted a deep fake.
Okay.
Yeah.
So the deep fakes are a little bit different.
It's got a cool.
They're kind of scary too though.
When you think about it, whatever this, I mean, for different reasons obviously.
But yeah, the deep fakes, they take an actual face though.
It's not recreated digitally.
Because they take your actual face from a million or however many available representations of your face, it actually exist.
They take that and then they match it up to another face.
So that's a different process.
But if you get a basically essentially a sculptor in a rigour, it's regained.
It means like, oh, I'm going to control this sidebar out.
And there's I laid in all this stuff.
You rig everything, the best, best guys.
It's going to look like a weird, like a weird monster.
And then there's a word for it.
The fact that it's weird, it's called the uncanny valley.
And it's like, so it's this valley between the real deal, recognizing it as the real deal and then a fake deal.
So the small of the uncanny valley, the more offsetting it is.
So if it's like a straight up robot face, like if you remember the back of the like short circuit,
remember that movie?
Sure.
So I can't remember if I any way.
But I don't know why I did watch ET the other day with, I don't even, there's an obviously no CGI in there, but man, I hadn't seen ET since I was 10 or whatever.
Eight or whatever it came out.
I saw it in the theater.
And like I remembered like this really good movie, you know, like space aliens.
Have you watched it lately?
No.
I was, I was really kind of,
I liked it.
But journalist like what you wanna watch was, is that if the same thing I offered on TV,
John T.
.
Man, I'm a Steve In Spielberg.
If you're out there, I like, I get it, rather than you working.
We've watched you at the time.
All good.
He looks like a doll that someone's moving around.
It's crazy to watch.
Maybe he's playing it.
That's how they look.
You see him saying, come on.
Come out.
But there isn't actually an argue kid.
They call that practical effects versus visual effects.
So like practical effects is like, like the physical thing.
Visual is like CG.
Right.
There's a big argument for practical effects.
They should be like practical effects.
I think we all do.
But the uncanny valley thing.
Like ET even for example, if it's so obviously not a person, no one can, it's not going
to off put anybody.
Everyone's going to be like, okay, cool.
It's a non person.
Whatever it is, robot, alien, whatever.
But if it is a person, but it's not exactly exactly straight up a real person.
Everyone's going to be freaking weirded out by the thing.
So to bring us back to what we're talking about and believe it or not, this entire
rabbit hole we just went down to, down is absolutely applicable.
We're talking about because what we're talking about is we're talking about removing the
ability for human beings to express themselves properly.
We're removing that ability and when we remove words from the language, we're removing
the ability for humans to express themselves.
And therefore we are removing the ability to think.
That is a scary thing.
Yeah, it's like the difference between, you know, when you take a test.
And there's all kinds of tests, right?
So there's like, if you go down the spectrum of tests, there's like the essay question
or the thesis, really, the straight up thesis.
There's probably more comprehensive tests than that.
But we'll thesis.
Yeah.
Then you got your essay question test.
Then you got a multiple choice and then true false.
You know, actually there's a few before multiple choice because you got your like, hey,
what's this?
And you have to say the answer.
Okay.
Fallen the death.
Feel in the death, fill in the blanks, sentence word, whatever.
And you got your multiple choice, right?
ABCD, all the above, not the above, whatever.
Then you got your true false.
Yeah.
So now you got just straight binary now.
True false.
No room for freaking nuance.
No nothing.
You seem saying what tested you prefer the most.
Well, depends.
Depends what all that was.
And what the subject was for sure.
If I didn't care, but just wanted to, like, great.
Obviously the true false.
Really.
I always felt like I had a little bit of better, you know, because maybe I wasn't, you
know, when we're talking, we're talking, you know, teenage years.
Maybe I wasn't quite really doing much study at that time.
Yeah.
So I could maybe write a better essay and fill in the blanks a little bit about what,
you know, maybe there's a concept because I was good if I understood a concept, I could
kind of run with it.
Yeah.
Whereas true false, like what happened on this date, I'd be like, because I didn't read
it and study it, you know?
Yeah.
Now when I went to college, I was like, bring it.
I was like, what taste you were kind of touchy.
You want to give me.
Yeah.
But a lot of those.
So true and I'm sure educators have a good grasp on why you would ever administer a true
false, question, test versus, you know, any of the other ones.
And I hope anyway, because man, if you're doing like a, like a history true false, like
that's way more dangerous because of like how much nuance or in perspective, like, if you
got, okay, so my daughter will ask me questions and I'll always answer and I told you this
before, where I'll always answer with depends.
Like what's your favorite color?
Frick in depends.
Good one.
But my favorite color.
What wearing stuff or my car or Brad's different, you know, or not even necessarily, it
is different.
It's like black and color.
It can be tiger stripe camels.
Most actually, my favorite color actually is black and they know that, but then she'll always
probe me like what's your favorite color, what's your favorite color.
And then so it makes you think about it, you know, so I'm like black, but Brad, I'm not
going to wear like black under in certain circumstances, certain blacks.
So speaking of tests and speaking of language, because I'm over here just trying to real things
back into what subject, which is, you know, cool.
That's something I'm proposing for.
He's been.
So check this out.
When you, when you, when you went to college and you took, was there a possibility of taking
a class where you wouldn't get graded by a letter, but you would either get through the
class or not get through the class?
Yeah.
What was that called?
Pass, no pass.
Okay.
So when I work, because I, as my, one of my daughters in college, they're like offering
an alcins, everything's online, you can take every class.
She says, I can take, you know, she said they're telling us we could take every class,
pass, no pass.
Oh, that's like the option.
When I was a kid, no one is called.
Pass failed.
Yeah.
That's what it was in our studio.
It was called pass fail.
Yeah.
Now it's called pass, no pass.
No pass.
Yes.
On pass, right?
Because we, we remove the word fail out of the vocabulary.
Yeah, I might mess with people self esteem, man.
Yeah.
That's a fail.
There's your fail.
Yeah.
All right.
We're getting back to the book.
The second distinguishing mark of new speak grammar was its regularity.
Subject to few exceptions, which were mentioned below all inflections, followed the same
rules.
This in all verbs, the predatory and past participle were the same and ended in ED.
The predatory of steel was steel.
The predatory of think was think and so on throughout the language, all such forms, such
a swam gave, brought spoke taken being a boss.
So you like this part.
Because now it's all more uniformed.
Yeah.
The rules are all plurals were made by adding S's or ES's as the case might be.
The plurals of man, ox, life were man's, ox's, life's.
Comparison of adjectives was invariably made by adding ER or EST.
Good, good or goodest.
Irregular forms and more and the more most formation being suppressed.
So we got rid of, they got rid of more and most and just got good, good or goodest.
The only classes of words which were still allowed to inflect regularly were the pronouns,
the relatives, the demonstrative adjectives and the auxiliary verbs.
All of these followed their ancient usage except that whom had been scrapped as unnecessary
and the shall should, tenses had been dropped.
All they're used to being covered by will and wood.
There were also certain irregularities in word formation arising out of the need for
rapid and easy speech.
A word that was difficult to utter was liable to be incorrectly heard was held to be
ipso facto of bad word.
Occasionally, therefore, for the sake of you from any extra letters were inserted into
a word or an archaic formation was retained.
This was, but this need made itself, felt chiefly in connection with the B vocabulary.
Why, so great and important was attached to ease of pronunciation when we made clear later
in the session.
So one of their main purposes was to make these things easy to say and clear.
We're trying to dumb everything down for society.
Yeah, like you know, home, everyone's all you see like one of these little diagrams and
they say like, I don't know if they actually, I don't think they say this is proper,
but the whole diagram implies that it's proper.
So it's like very good and then they say, don't say very good, say excellent.
You know, don't say whatever, say that, you know, they like they tell you the actual word
for a fair, like don't say.
And it's in a weird way, it almost seems like it's the opposite of that, you know, wherever
it's like, hey, they're trying to expand your vocabulary.
It is the opposite.
Like when you're in, when you write up an English paper in ninth grade and you say the
chicken that I ate last night was very, very, very dry.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Do you get it, check it?
Don't, you come up with a better word.
Right?
Don't just put another very on that thing to give it another level of goodness.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's what, that's, that's a beautiful thing.
That's a way it should be.
Right.
That way should be, people should be learning more words, our vocabulary should be growing.
Yeah, you know what's interesting.
Very interesting.
What, what's the next word?
What's the next word?
Be fastened.
We'll go fastened.
No, interesting kind of seemed ambiguous.
Like it's interesting in a good way or a bad way.
You know, fascinating is like it's like wonderfully interesting.
Okay.
Is that what one of their says?
No, maybe, I don't know, certain levels.
levels. Anyway, even in slang, we have that, you know? Like even like, I can think
for an example strangely, but you know, like I was saying, like you'll have it, like, oh,
yeah, you're, okay, these are all swear words, so I don't want to do that example, but
you can be like, oh, yeah, he's cool or he's, um, whack, whack, or he's, uh, or he's, you know,
and there's all these escalating levels of higher arcades of confidence. Yeah, you know, so you
could say, oh, yeah, he's cool or he could say he's very cool or he can say he's like, the
he's, I don't know, I just made that up or what, I didn't make it up. He's out of it, but, you know,
how like there's different slang words for different degrees of the sentence. So even slang has an escalating
hierarchy of words to explain things. Yeah, the expanded slang vocabulary exists as well.
Uh, now we get into the bevo vocabulary. The bevo vocabulary consisted of words which have been deliberately
constructed for political purposes, words that is to say, which not only had every case in every case
a political implication, but we're intended to impose desirable, a desirable mental attitude on the
person using them without a full understanding of the principles of insocket was difficult to use
these words correctly. And some cases they could be translated into old speak or even in a words taken
from avo vocabulary, but this usually demanded a long paraphrase and always involved the loss of certain
overtones. The be words were a sort of verbal shorthand often packing whole ranges of ideas into
a few syllables and at the same time more accurate and forceful than ordinary language. The be words were
in all cases compound words. They consisted of two more words or portions of words welded together
in an easily pronounceable form. The resulting was always a noun verb and inflected according to
the ordinary rules to take a simple example. The word good think, meaning very roughly orthodoxy
or if one choose to regard it as a verb to think in an orthodox manner, this inflected as follows.
noun verb, good think, the past tense and past participle, good think, present participle,
good thinking, adjective, good thinkful and adverb, good think wise, verbal noun, good thinker.
The be words were not constructed on any etymological plan. The words of which they were made up
could be parts of any speech, could be placed in any order and mutilated in any way,
which made them easy to pronounce while indicating their derivatives. In the word crime think,
thought crime, for instance, the think came second whereas in think poll which was the thought police,
it came first and in the latter the word police had lost its second syllable.
Because the great difficulty in making it sound good, irregular formations were commoner
in the bevel capital of the nevel capital. For example, adjective forms of miniature,
are sorry, mini true, mini packs, mini love were respectively the ministry of true,
mini truthful, mini peaceful, mini lovely simply because truthful,
powerful and lovely, loveful were slightly awkward to pronounce. He went deep on this.
Some of the be words had highly sub-tallized meetings,
subtleized meetings, barely intelligible to anyone who had not mastered languages, a whole
consider for example the typical sentence from a times leading article as old thinker's unbelly
feel in shock. The shortest rendering that could make this of, that one could make of this
and old speak would be those whose ideas were formed before the revolution cannot have a full
emotional understanding of the principles of English socialism. So that whole sentence gets translated
into old thinkers, unbelly feel in shock. The greatest difficulty facing the compilers of new
speak of the new speak dictionary was not to invent new words but having invented them to make
sure what they meant to make sure that is to say what ranges of words they canceled because of their
existence. If you made up a new word, I had to get rid of a bunch of other words. Yeah,
we have already seen that in the case of the word free words which had once borne a heretical,
heretical, that's the meaning where sometimes retained for the sake of convenience,
but only with the undesirable meanings purged out of them.
Other words such as honor, justice, morality,
internationalism, democracy, science and religion had simply ceased to exist.
A few blanket words covered them and in covering them abolished them. All words grouping
themselves around the concepts of liberty and equality for instance were contained,
contained in the single word crime think. While all words grouping themselves around the concepts
of objectivity and rationalism were contained in the single word old think.
That's really disturbing to think about just the fact that you take the get rid of the words
and now how do we even teach it to your kids?
Greater precision would have been dangerous. What was required in a party member was an
outlook similar to that of the ancient Hebrew who knew without knowing much else that all
nations other than his own worshiped false gods. He did not need to know that these gods were called
Baal Osiris Maluk and the like. Probably the less he knew about them the better for his orthodoxy.
That's a very cool explanation. He knew Jehovah and the commanders of Jehovah. He knew
therefore that all gods with other names or other attributes were false gods.
In some of the same way the party member knew what constituted right conduct and in exceedingly
vague generalized terms he knew what kinds of departure from it were possible.
But you only know that and everything else is just bad. Everything else is false. Everything else is
lie. That's all you need to know.
No be word. No word in the be vocabularies ideologically neutral.
A great many name names were euphemisms. Words such words for instance as joy camp
which was a forced labor camp or mini packs which is the ministry of war which is the ministry of
peace is what it was short for but it really meant the ministry of war meant almost the exact
opposite of what they appeared to mean. Some words on the other hand displayed a frank and contemptuous
understanding of the real nature of oceanic society an example of this pro-feed meaning the
rubbishy entertainment and spurious news which the party handed out to the masses. Other words
again were ambivalent having the connotation good when applied to the party and bad when applied
to its enemies. Good thinking, bad thinking. But in addition there were great numbers of words which
at first sight appeared to be mirror abbreviations and which derived their ideological color
not from their meaning but from their structure. Fast forward a little bit. Talks start talking
about in the ministry of truth for example the records department in which Winston Smith works
worked was called the wrecked-depp. The fictional department was called the Fick-depp. The teleprograms
department was called the teledepp and so on. This was not done solely with the object of saving time.
Even in the early decades of the 20th century telescope words and phrases had been one of
characteristic features of political language and it had been noticed that the tendency to use
abbreviations of this kind was most marked in totalitarianism countries and totalitarian
organizations. Examples were such words as Nazi Gestapo, common turn, adjiprop. In the beginning the
practice had been adopted as it were instinctively but new speak but when a new speak it was used
with a conscious purpose. It was perceived that in thus abbreviating a name one narrowed the
subtlety altered and altered its meaning by cutting out most of the associations that would
otherwise cling to it. That's very interesting. The words communist international for instance
call up a composite picture of universal human brotherhood red flags, barricades,
Karl Marx and the Paris commune. The word common turn on the other hand suggests merely a
tight knit organization of well-defined body of doctrine. It refers to something almost as easily
recognized and limited in purpose as a charitable. I don't know why I used common instrument
set of Nazis. It seems like Nazis is the like national socialism. Those two words have their own
meanings and you can attach a bunch of things to nationalism and socialism but when you put those
words together in Germany and Nazi, it doesn't get more obvious that we just made something different
and like you say it makes it a tight group. It removes all the other things that can hang on to these
words. In the same way the associations called up by a word like Minitru are fewer and more
controllable than those called up by ministry of truth. This accounted for the habit, not only the
habit of abbreviating whenever possible but also for the almost exaggerated care that was taken to
make every word easily pronounced. For the purposes of everyday life it was no doubt necessary
or sometimes necessary to reflect before speaking but a party member called upon to make a
political or ethical judgment should be able to spray forth the correct opinions as automatically
as a machine gun spraying forth bullets. His training fitted him to do this. The language gave
him an almost foolproof instrument and the texture of the words and their harsh sound and certain
willfulness, willing willfulness, which was in a core with the spirit of being sock assisted
the process further. That little section that I was like remind me of what you see today when
people just have their go-to terms that's what they're going to throw. They just have
they're just going to attack with the damn attack words. You know like I'm coming at you.
Right. You just hear it. What does buzzwords? That's what I was looking for.
What does it call it? Yeah, but they're coming at you with the cliche. Oh like oh that guy's a
comi, that guy's Nazi. You know they got you're just going to you know you're on the other side
cool. You're Nazi. Oh right like they kind of throw it all kind of into one almost like yeah
here's here's my argument. You know you say hey, Jocco I think that there should be voter ID
in America and I say you're a Nazi. Right. That's kind of the same thing. And then basically
then all my friends start calling you a Nazi as well. Right. Right. And then I say well you know
echo I think that we should have you know some form of welfare to help people out and you're like
you're a comi and all your friends call me a comi. So that's like that's what I'm saying. That's what
that reminds me of. Good. Everybody should be able to spray forth the correct opinions. It's
automatically as a machine gun spraying forth bullets. Correct opinion. Yep. Scary. Then you get into
the Cvo vocabulary and when you get into Cvo vocabulary there was indeed no word for science.
Any meaning that could possibly bear being already covered by the word inksach. So everything is
just it's just based on inksach and science that's just inksach. That's what they say is correct.
That's science. So you don't need all these other words. And Cvo vocabulary was supplementary
to others and consistently of scientific and technical terms. But like I said there's not too many of them.
Ideas in a call to inksach which is my costalingsach could be. It could only be entertained
in a vague wordless form. It could not only be named in very broad terms which lump together and
condemned whole groups of heresies without defining them and doing so. So it's kind of similar to
what I just said. Oh you you want you you're you're you're you're you're conservative you're not
see oh you're a liberal you're a comedy. That's the same thing right. Your whole group is just
Nazis. Your whole group is just comics. That's where we're at. The concept of political equality
no longer existed. And this secondary meaning had accordingly been purged out of the word equal.
In 1984 when Oldspeak was still the normal means of communication that danger theoretically existed
that in using new speak words one might remember their original meanings. In practice it was not
difficult for any person to be well grounded in double think to avoid doing this but within a lapse
within a couple generations even the possibility of such a lapse would have vanished.
So they're going to get rid of the language over time like my kid might remember the other
meaning of the word free but his kids are maybe maybe his kids but maybe by the time you get
two generations were good no more freedom not even not even a thought. Getting to the end here
when Oldspeak and I'm fast forwarding through a bunch of stuff when Oldspeak had been once and for
all superseded the last link with the past would have been severed. So if they could have gotten
control the language they would have made it. History had already been rewritten but fragments of
the literature of the past survived here and there in perfectly censored. They didn't quite get rid
of all the language and so long as one retained one's knowledge of Oldspeak it was possible or read them.
In the future such fragments even if they are chance to survive would be unintelligible and
untranslatable. It was possible to translate any past of Oldspeak in a new speak unless it
either referred to some technical process or some very simple notes at this very simple
every day action was already Orthodox. Good thankful would be the new speak of expression and
tendency. In practice this meant no book written before approximately 1960 could be translated as a
whole. Pre-revolutionary literature could only be subjected to ideological translation that is
alteration in sense as well as language. Take for example the well-known passage from the declaration
of independence we hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal that they are
endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights that among these are life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness that to secure these rights governments are instituted among men deriving their
powers from the consent of the governed. That whatever any form of government becomes destructive
of those ends it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it and so to institute new government.
It would have been quite impossible to render this into new speak while keeping it to the sense
of the original. The nearest one could come to doing so would be to swallow the whole passage up
in the single word crime thing. The whole thing was just crime speak.
Goes on here a good deal of the literature the past was indeed already being transformed this
way considerations of prestige made it desirable to preserve the memory of certain historical
figures while at the same time bridging their achievements into line with the philosophy of Innsac.
Various writers such as Shakespeare Milton Swift, Byron Dickens and some of the others were
therefore in the process of translation. When the task had been completed their original writings
with all else that survived of the literature of the past would be destroyed. These translations
were a slow difficult business and it was not expected that they would be finished before the
first or second decade of the 21st century. There were also large quantities of merely utilitarian
literature indispensable technical manuals and the like that had to be treated the same way.
It was chiefly in order to allow time for the preliminary work of translation that the final
adoption of new speak had been fixed for so late a date as 2050. So there you go that's this
and this that's a step-in-ex and you can see that they failed. They failed to change the language
which means they failed to get control of speech. They failed to to ban free thought because of that
and because of that they failed to successfully enslave the world in their tyranny. So very
very scary document and that's the language. That's the control of the language based on
reality based on history, the language control of the government of a dystopian future and
you can see it's amazing how close or well got it and as cowboy warned us it's
something we need to watch out for and we can't control everything but we need to control we can
and go back to the beginning of this that's why we don't have sponsors here who might limit what we say
or limit what we talked to or limit who we talked to that's why this podcast right here what we're
doing that's why it's open and it's free for everyone so that as many people's possible here
the lessons of history here the reflections of human nature in the past so we can all learn and we
can remember what's happened in the past so we don't repeat it so we've managed to maintain control
of that but we don't really have control of everything here and one of the things that we don't
have control of is the platforms that we come out on and we rely obviously we rely heavily on the
platforms and the platforms have been good to us for the most part so far all the platforms wherever
you're listening this right now we even treat you well it's been good but at the same time
any of those platforms that we published this podcast on could they could actually shut us down
if they wanted to they could pull the plug they could hold us hostage and I don't like that
and and we don't like that so we did some contingency planning little contingency planning look
hope what's what's the purpose of contingency hopefully you don't need to use a contingency
plan that's the hope is that you don't need to use a contingency plan but if we have to we we we
we figured we better do some contingency planning just in case so we're going to we're
putting together our own platform as a contingency setting up our own network or
I guess reinforcing it being prepared if we have to or we hope it doesn't go that way but we'll be
ready to we will have a little sovereign land of our own echo Charles our own little sovereign
little area little digital land little autonomous place that we we will have control over
that we can do we want and echo has been working hard on this right to put this together
a place where we can muster if we have to place we can bring our friends their podcast if we need to
a place where we can talk and we can argue and we can theorize the place where we can dissent
we can subvert and we can rebel a place where we're free a place where we are free to do
what we want to do in case we need it
okay so sounds fired up to me actually
what does it mean pragmatically so like I said echo has been for the past few weeks putting together
some the the actual sovereign world the the underground the the death core underground
doing the technical work besides just pressing record echo has skills
a separate so so so what we set up what echo is set up because pretty much I didn't do anything
besides like say we better do this just in case and echo said Roger that so
a separate un underground a podcast feed that's underground right
separate underground forum a separate underground kind of way to communicate to us
and listen this podcast that we're doing right here the jockel podcast this will remain
free and available to all for as long as it is allowed to be free in a web I will never change
that by my own volition and believe me we have had opportunity upon opportunity to
do that to go behind the fire wall pay well the pay wall and we haven't done that
and we won't do that so as long as this as long as we're allowed to do this we'll do it
but if but we do need to have contingency planning if you want to get in the game if you want
to support the underground that will be appreciated and and in order like when we do that
in order we got to give something you know to kind of show our appreciation we'll do some
things on the underground to you know show our appreciation now maybe some additional sort of podcast
things maybe some podcasts that don't fit in the typical format of a usual jockel podcast because
that's one thing that you know I think of that the I try might maintain a consistency with the
jockel podcast that when you press play you kind of know what you're getting or at least have some idea
so for me to throw something that's you know really uh maybe a lot shorter maybe it's a different
subject matter maybe it's some kind of current event space thing whatever I don't know but
we'll be able to do that we'll be able to do whatever we want because we will have pure
pure freedom we'll answer questions pride you some Q&A a little bit more because you know at
that some point if you recall the early days the podcast it was like hey I could just respond to
you on Twitter which I would because it would just say oh you ask a question cool I'll just answer
you oh and if it was a good question maybe you're going on the podcast and answer it but that
became overwhelming because there's just too many questions to answer them all having me done a Q&A
in a while so we'll do some Q&A type stuff this is you know so you can ask questions direct
now you were saying something about like doing some kind of live connections yeah
if we choose to yeah so if people want it well it's we meet the proverb you all of us if we
need that's our choice yes yeah so that's what we're doing obviously we'll be open to
whatever suggestion you know you got so that's what we're doing well we got to pay for it
there's gonna be a little price to pay for freedom we came up with a pricing number
if you can figure out the layers of this number what will they win let's let's
this needs to be rewarded if you can fit I bet someone can figure it out the if you if you
you want to join eight dollars and eighteen cents a month and if you can figure out the layers
between the behind eight eighteen let us know you'll win something something yeah they're cool something
it'll be a cool something do you think it's so obvious that everyone will figure it out it's very
possible okay so maybe if depending on how many people get let's say this the first three people
that get it will be rewarded but that way you know look a little bit of a little bit of
a cost for freedom that way we can invest in all these different things we want to do and by the way
if you're freaked out or you're like ah money grab and whatever cool no no factor if you can't
afford that if it's too much we we want you to listen echo will take care of you he's writing
down that email right now because you've just made it up you will have it live and yeah but if you
can't afford a chip in that's awesome too and we appreciate it there's also you know talking
some other friends right now that have other podcasts about you know given them the same kind of
bringing them into the fold and that's what we're at and like I said I hope it doesn't come
to a point where you need to go full death core underground but we prepare we make contingency
plans and we execute so we'll do some cool stuff and we'll be ready one more excerpt from 1984 here's
the quote don't you see that the whole aim of new speak is to narrow the range of thought in the end
we shall make far crime literally impossible because there will be no words in which to express it and
quote well we will maintain the words and we will maintain our freedom echo yes sir so how do people
join the jockel death core underground go to jockel underground dot com that's it just made up that's all you
didn't go there and that's where you can join if you want there you go cool kind of crazy what it
well so obviously we're not just sitting around waiting for a dystopian future tube to be delivered
on to us we're preparing for yes we also got prepared for other things in life yeah we want to be
prepared we want to have capabilities yes what do you recommend so okay so bad and I
vaguely heard of this book 19 series crazy enough I don't know maybe I don't know maybe I'm
quiet that's just not how okay I don't know maybe I missed it okay but it's really interesting because
like they're little parts of that like we all of that stuff that they're doing and trying to do
whatever we do that in little ways and it's actually the thing is it's useful and it's actually
beneficial in a lot of ways as long as it's not across the board this is what you're doing
like you lost me there when you want to make things binary which we talked about on the
last episode actually that's completely different things it's a small one the same concept
except it's used for good so like dude you're getting wrapped around the fact that you have
a computer programming mind and you want to take the English language and put it into a totally
formatted system this doesn't again again if it's across the board you know why it doesn't
work I'll tell you why it doesn't work it's like you did to languages like the English languages
like you did to words come into it and they get adapted into it if they're good if they work if
they don't then they get to shut down oh yeah fully and then the same thing with like methodology
in general so if you like okay so the binary thing right binary thing they're they're implementing
that in language across the board that concept anyway across the board that's bad but you can use
that in specific nuanced ways to make it like a more efficient situation like working out or
something like that where okay so I was working out today actually something tells me you just
want to tell me this story and you're giving some kind of a no no so this isn't exactly this is
why this whole book is interesting it's it basically one of the many lessons or whatever it's like
you can take us a good thing and just take it too far if you implement it across the board
that's got to be a leader's a lot of this stuff yeah fully a lot of stuff again in teeny tiny
doses or use just like sparingly it's like it's good thing like salt really put a little bit of salt
on touch it's pretty nice okay but too much salt or you put all salt right your dead true
so anyway I'm working out and my little son he's like four now he's doing you know he's
he's copying more and trying to understand and and actively understanding like but he's
kettlebell swings yeah he was doing little kids like the kettlebell swings don't back
you know I don't want them to quite do my daughter does them or wants to do them whatever
I don't I don't know I don't need her like sleeping and bashing her shin with that little kettle
I don't know anyway burpees all the yeah we can talk about that offline yes or any of us
having your kids you kettlebell swings is a good thing seems like beneficial yeah okay cool
work on that coordination if we're worried about leg hits shin hits yes they're okay
makes sense to me so so my daughter was there and she was like talking about like how
her like because she went to that running thing what her leg is all sore and all the stuff me
while my son he's over getting after it or whatever right and he's like hey I'm doing this
or whatever so I can be strong so my daughter said listening so it's like yeah it's true
and you can understand in life answer me this what's better to be strong or weak strong these
they strong what's it better to know how to do something or did not know how to do something
is it to know how to do something so okay what's better to be healthy or unhealthy they say
healthier whatever right so obviously life is there's way more to it than what's better
you kettlebell swings are not your kettlebell swings that's another one of the things
on the surface you say yeah kettlebell swings all day but the point is there's a lot more to it
than that but if I use that binary terminology just for that moment it's going to send a message
more effectively granted it's a good message at this point but you apply that across the board
you just eliminate understanding nuance all these important yes I get it I get it you're your
theory is accepted but it's really really you're you're taking like something massively destructive
and just taking a little tiny piece of it and said can't say that's good yeah like salt
okay I guess that we'll go with it but if if I have a steak come on jocco steak right all day
I'm gonna steak I put a little bit of salt on it because I make it better or worse in your opinion
in the synopinian can we put pepper on it too yes yes okay what if all the all salt you put the whole thing
good yeah actually let me start eliminating some of the stakes to make broom for more the salt
in fact at the end of the day let's remove the whole steak just salt and pepper or wait you
want in pepper right so it's all and pepper right your day it's not even good it's not even the same thing
same thing yeah I got it so a little bit it's good a lot of it so a little bit of language control inside
your own family with your children trying to explain to them basic things like a binary decision
making process between good and bad in an immediate way right is it's a positive thing kind of
influence their thoughts first sure got it across the board maybe not just remind me not to let you
become dictator we've run that game on the whole country yeah well there you go the world sure the world
too are it anyway speaking of working out yeah I worked out today we're expanding our capabilities
our strength our health all that stuff right that's what this path is so in the spirit of being
powerful you see what I'm doing there anyway we got supplements boom jockel fuel we got stuff
for you join so you have to think about them aching anymore you have to worry about thinking about
them aching anymore thinking about that stuff won't even exist it'll be impossible to think
even think about it those stop crimes etc anyway joint warfare also super krill oil these things
help you join to keep you in the game even as we age through this human existence also discipline
and discipline go it's for your mind everybody too it's a daily thing I think but yes
enhance your cognitive capabilities as far as capabilities go have you improved your routine
where you're at a hundred percent on krill and then enjoy warfare with no
no holes in your game lapses you did you just use a word hundred percent yeah no no how can you
not dig that once you just put them when you brush your teeth you take it you know well I thought
we covered that before as far as the brushing the teeth part because the routine is it's nuanced
anyway it's because to really point it out it's when the whole covid thing came to my shores
I was like I grabbed the vitamin D3 in the cold war I was like my mind shifted to that as the
priority and then it'd be like one day all I didn't take the krill oil you know not because like
before I'd make black delve like okay I'm just gonna take this now or whatever it's not as implemented
into the routine as it should be really crazy to me yeah really crazy to me that this is not a big
like thing that you could just do with the bottles next to your teeth bro you know what it is
no this is this is really what it is now that I'm like analyzing my whole mind because you're right
you're like we know it like helps you so much yeah yes so here's the thing I'm violating
two rules or maybe it's just one rule with different terms resting on my laurels and complacency
okay so you know how like bro my joints don't hurt so I'm not compelled to solve any problem
you see I'm saying but I'm not kind of taking my own advice you know how you like you know
I think about your days go by and then you do feel your joys oh it's like like for five six days you know
you go six days until it start feeling it yeah but oh I'm not like awful I don't have issues
right now but I'm just saying like as far as 100% daily the way that that one I when I do put it
together I'm just not doing that but I'm getting there but yeah no issues for sure but that's
I think baby steps bro maybe we're getting there working on it or not on that discipline yeah so the
lesson there is even take I got to take my own advice we don't want to think about that
good stuff but the only way to not think about your joints hurting or hurting in the future is
to through discipline take them every day see now you're like that guy that's you know
given advice about something they're not actually doing yeah kind of just that I'll give you advice
hey take them every day there you go I don't know that I say take it every day I say take it
it so you don't know the worry about your joints but look I'm saying right now and I'm
starting doing it right now how about that next time you check in with me 100% I'm wondering
to check in with you anyway you might be on cocaine or something anyway discipline and discipline
go for your brain for your body for your whole thing for your life really discipline go in a can
that's what I'm gonna talk about you like energy drinks cool you don't like energy drinks yeah I
know why cool discipline go in a can is everything that an energy drink should be
and more like I help you in yourself you are a corner right there you know you wanted to give
the counter exam when you painted yourself in your corner you couldn't escape and I'm a
creative it's all the good without the bad it's all the good without the bad yeah it's all the good
without the bad yeah it's all the good without the bad yeah yeah it's fully good it's in
walla right now it's online you can get it wherever you want accessibility is not the issue
here yeah yeah yeah it's about making the correct choice by the way the freedom to choose
freedom to choose right thing yeah you can get this stuff at walla you can get it a vitamin
shop you can get it an origin main dot com you can actually get it on Amazon all this stuff
milk protein discipline just the whole nine yards check it out if you want to if you want to
get after it also at origin main you got jututub gear because we are training jututub for a multitude
of reasons as we found out on that last podcast is it better to be capable more incapable we
want to be capable if you choose to fight someone do you want the choice to fight someone and win
or no it's better to be capable or uncapable yeah so it's better to do jutsu or unjutsu
and I want to do jutsu you want to do jutsu is double plus good yes yes so good
origin main dot com get geese get rash question also good jeans boots t-shirts and the thing is
all the stuff is made in america all made in a factory up in Maine and it's awesome we're bringing
manufacturing back to america so support if you can what else joc was store it's called joc
store same deal if you want to represent on this path you want to be path full and represented the
same time just payment you go joclostard calm get a disciplined shirt hoodie hat some rash cards on
there we do have a t-shirt club if you're into it and if you're into representing monthly
variety different stuff so that's this is the kind of thing where maybe that's where the
ungood t-shirt comes from right oh like slides in as far as the implementation that's
facet it's very cool if you kind of if you're kind of in the game right no video yet like revises
of a little bit ungood t-shirt on from from that I'll be like yep so you might want to put
that one in the lineup put it in the lineup a little bit ungood here you're here first jocos
idea good one I like it it's it's not ungood I'll tell you that but yeah t-shirt
every month you know it's like one of those things in the theme of today's deal it's it's not
narrowing down your options for representation it's expanding them same same yeah t-shirt club
check that up if you want boom on joclostard dot com also subscribe to the podcast we got a
the platforms that were on like I said they they've been good to us let's hope they stay that way
subscribe to it check it out we also got we got this podcast we got the jockel unraveling podcast
we got grounded podcast we got the warrior kid podcast we got a youtube channel where echo does
excessive amounts of CGI and uncanny fakes or what would you say uncanny valley uncanny he's
he's out there in the uncanny valley he was walking through the uncanny valley of death uncanny valley
death and he fears no robots so check out that also got little excerpts on there we got psychological warfare
which is me talking for like a minute two minutes three minutes out of a whack and I'm telling you
put your donut down tell me get out of bed tell me why did do it when to help you achieve
what you want to achieve you don't you don't feel like it flip side canvas stuff you can hang on
your wall some people would say art I would say graphic visual representations of the path of justice
got a bunch of books a bunch of books about face leadership strategy and tactics discipline
equals freedom field manual brand new version you can probably get that one for you know somebody
that you know that could you was a little just a little adjustment in life maybe it's the kind of
person maybe it's the kind of person that right now they could use some help maybe when they wake
up in the morning instead of having a routine where they take the supplements they're supposed to take
maybe they could just figure out through this book they could find the discipline that it takes to put
a bottle next to their toothbrush and take it thank you jacko anyways you can check out that book
this week was freedom field manual way the warrior could four field manuals out way the warrior could
one two three mic in the dragons extreme ownership that caught me leadership we got that's the
front which is leadership consultancy we saw problems to leadership go to echelon front dot com for
details on that we got eF online we're on there all the time live doing q and a's we got
discussions happening with an entire network of leaders from all kinds of different industries
and the echelon front team myself the rest of the team we're on there all the time so check out
eF online dot com we have the master which is our leadership seminar we got Phoenix March 3rd and 4th
Orlando made 25th and 26th and Las Vegas October 28th and 29th go to extreme ownership dot com
look by that time let's face it code is going to be over we got the vaccine we got vitamin D
we got all kinds of good stuff going on I'm calling it well let's hope it's over let's hope it's over
then look we didn't have any monsters this year so obviously we got a bunch of people that are already
signed up to go but if you want to if you want to come check it out extreme ownership dot com we got
eF overwatch we got executive leadership for your company if you want to hire a former military
person that understands the principles we talk about all the time check out eFoverwatch dot com
and if you want to help service members active duty service members retired service members
their families gold star families then check out mark leaves mom momma Lee she's got a charity
organization and if you want to donate or get involved check out america's mighty warriors dot org
and if you want to bring some dystopian future into your present day we got you covered
you can get more of my despondent diet tribes or you can get more of echoes dysoriented
differentiations you can find us on the interwebs and we definitely got some dysoriented
differentiations from you today definitely and you can find us on the interwebs
on turn on instagram which you know echo only refers to ads the gram and on
echo is adequate Charles i am at jockel milk and thanks to all the military people out there
in the world that fight against tyranny and oppression every single day and keep us free
and thanks to police and law enforcement firefighters paramedics emt's dispatchers
correctional officers board patrol secret service all first responders for being there when we
aren't in our time of need and to everyone else out there don't take freedom for granted
and countless sacrifices have been made to secure freedom and to preserve it and if
we have to preserve and I know that we don't do it perfectly but i do believe that in the
battle of good versus evil and light versus dark and truth versus light i believe that truth
and light and good will prevail but there may be times of darkness and for those times we will be
ready and we we may have to go underground at some point but we will never surrender and we will
never submit to tyranny discipline equals freedom and freedom will overcome all and until next time
this is echo and jockel out